1 
World Domination Handbook Version 1.2 — January 2002 
(Revised from WDH v1.1 by Steve Brinich, with assistance and feedback from the Online Illuminati.) 
 
Card back designs by Derek Pearcy, from a painting by David Martin. 
Graphic design by Derek Pearcy and Jeff Koke (cards), Monica Stephens (rules). 
Card illustrations by Dan Smith, Shea Ryan, and John Kovalic. 
UFOs design by Bill Barker. 
Additional card art by Rick Harris, Ruth Thompson and Gary Washington. 
Cards colored by Derek Pearcy, Jeff Koke and Rick Martin. 
 
Playtesters and Rules Readers: Lots of people, but especially Mike Ford, Monica Stephens, Scott Haring, Jim McCoy, 
Jim Oldland, Lillian Butler, ORC, and the Online Illuminati... 
Copyright © 1982, 1983, 1987, 1991, 1994, 1995, 2002 by Steve Jack son Games Incorporated. Illuminati and the all -
seeing pyramid are registered trademarks of Steve Jackson Games Incorporated. All rights reserved. The Servants of 
Cthulhu appear by courtesy of those illuminated folks at Chaosium, Inc., publishers of the Call of Cthulhu  roleplaying 
game. 
This is a work of political and social satire. Any resemblance to real persons, places, events or organizations, living, 
dead or whatever, other than with satirical intent, is coincidental. 
Use of trademarks is not intended as a challenge to their ownership or validity. 
 
The World Is Stranger Than You Think... 
Everything that you read in the tabloids is true. The telephone company is 
controlled by the Moonies. The Congressional Wives have taken over the Pentagon. 
The Druids ar e casting spells to destroy the IRS. Hitler is still alive... or at least his 
brain is, in a jar... and you wouldn’t believe where it’s hidden. Mad scientists are 
building Orbital Mind Control Lasers... aimed at you! 
You’ve always known it. Secret conspira cies are everywhere. They’re out to get 
you —  unless you get them first. 
Now you are one of the Illuminati, the “secret masters” competing to take over the 
world. World leaders, multinational corporations, and entire nations are merely your 
pawns. The outcome is never certain until the final double-cross... 
What’s in the Mysterious Little Box? 
This is a game for 2 to 6 players. The Illuminati: New World Order  ( INWO) 
starter set includes this rulebook and two boxes of 55 cards. You can get Booster 
Packs and boxed sets of cards to add to your collection. 
You’ll need two 6-sided dice. Each player also needs about 15 “Action tokens” 
(glass pebbles are good) and a few pairs of distinctive markers for “links.” And, of 
course, the drive and cunning to walk over you r friends in your quest for world 
domination. 
The World Is At Your Feet... 
INWO can be played two ways: 
Head-to-head, with two players: It’s all in who builds the best deck, makes the best 
plan, and takes best advantage of circumstances. Go for the throat!  A two -player 
game takes 30 minutes to an hour (see Two-Player Rules, p. 17). 
In a group, with three to six players:  Diplomacy, negotiation and guile are vital. 
And be ready to defend against all your foes when you get close t o winning. Length 
of the game depends on how much time you spend negotiating before you attack; 
typically, the game takes 20-30 minutes per player. 
Object of the Game 
The object of Illuminati is to control the world. You start with a single Illuminati 
card, representing your own secret conspiracy. During the game, you will add other 
Groups to your Power Structure, and perhaps take Groups away from rival Power 
Structures. You can use Plot cards to advance your own position or harass your foes. 
You may win by  controlling enough Groups, or by fulfilling the special goal of 
your own Illuminati, or by meeting the objectives on a Goal card. Or, of course, by 
destroying all of your foes! 
INDEX 
Basic Rules............................... 2 
Beginning the Game................2 
Turn Sequence ........................ 2 
“Any Time” Moves.................3 
Action Tokens.......................... 3 
Illuminati Action Tokens ........3 
Power Structures ...................... 4 
In Play vs. Just Played.............4 
The Cards................................ .4 
Discards ................................ ..4 
Plot Cards................................ 4 
Group Cards............................ 5 
Resource Cards ....................... 7 
Attacks ................................ .....7 
Attack to Control..................... 8 
Automatic Failure ..................8 
Alignments............................. 8 
Attributes ............................... 8 
Aiding or Opposing Attacks ..8 
Global Power ......................... 8 
Using Plots and Abilities .......9 
Resistance to Control .............9 
Resolving the Attack..............9 
Whoops!............................... 10 
Results of Attack to Control.10 
Attack to Destroy .................. 10 
Hidden Agents ...................... 10 
Limits on Attacks.................. 11 
Privileged Attacks................11 
Immunity ............................. 11 
Secret Groups....................... 11 
Instant Attacks ..................... 11 
Assassinations...................... 12 
Disasters............................... 12 
Devastation and Relief.........12 
Moving Groups ...................... 12 
Gifts and Trades ..................... 12 
Timing................................ ....13 
Throwing Away Cards.........13 
Speed Play............................. 13 
Evil Schemes.......................... 13 
New World Order Cards .......13 
Duplicate Cards..................... 13 
Links ................................ .....14 
Moving Links....................... 14 
Illegal Links......................... 14 
The Cards Remember... .......15 
Cancellations, Illegal Actions, 
& Other Surprises ..........15 
The Endgame ......................... 15 
Eliminating a Player..............15 
Winning the Game ................16 
Strategy ................................ ..16 
The Perfect Deck................... 17 
Balanced Power Structures ...17 
Threats and Negotiation ........17 
Two-Player Rules................... 17 
Meta-Rules............................. 17 
Glossary of Terms.................. 18 
Game Support ........................ 19 
Rules Update.......................... 19 
Cards Update......................... 20 
 
Game Design 
by 
Steve Jackson 


=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
BASIC RULES 
Beginning the Game 
(1) Each player must have his own 45 -card (including 
your Illuminati) INWO deck. The relative number of 
Plot cards (cards with a hand on the back) and Group 
cards (cards with a puppet on the back) in your deck is 
up to you; typically, a strong deck will have 12-20 Group 
cards and 24 -32 Plot cards. De signing a strong deck, 
with cards that enhance each other’s strengths and cover 
for each other’s weaknesses, will help you win. 
(2) Each player divides his cards into a Plot deck and a 
Group deck. The Plot deck will include Plots (cards with 
blue backgroun ds or blue title text) and possibly extra 
Illuminati cards (cards with black backgrounds and four 
outgoing control arrows). The Group deck will include 
Groups (cards with red backgrounds or red title text) and 
usually Resources (cards with purple backgroun ds or 
purple title text). 
(3) Each player puts his starting Illuminati card on the 
table face down. Once everyone’s Illuminati card is on 
the table, flip them face up. Note: In some games, more 
than one player has the same type of Illuminati... which 
means they represent different factions of the same 
conspiracy (see Duplicate Cards, p. 14). 
(4) Each player shuffles his Plot deck and draws three 
Plot cards for his starting hand. You may look at your 
cards, but you cannot play a ny of them until the game 
actually begins. These are your first “hidden Plots.” 
(5) Each player selects one Group from his deck as a 
“lead” —  the first puppet of his Illuminati. Each player 
puts his lead on the table face down. Once everyone has 
a card on the table, flip them face up. If two or more 
players chose the same lead Group, put the duplicates 
aside. Those players select new lead Groups that do not 
duplicate any that have already been chosen. Continue 
until everyone has a lead Group (or runs out of  Groups). 
Each player puts his lead Group on one of his Illuminati 
control arrows (see Control Arrows, p. 6). You may not 
lead with a Resource —  it must be a Group! 
(6) Each player shuffles his Group deck and draws six 
Group cards (or the entire deck, whichever is less) for his 
starting hand. Any duplicates that were put aside in the 
previous step are shuffled back into the owner’s deck 
after he draws his starting hand. From now on, you may 
not look at, or trade, any of your un drawn cards —  just 
the ones in your hand. 
(7) Each player rolls two dice. The one with the 
highest roll goes first. 
At the beginning of the game, you may not do anything 
to a rival who has not yet completed his first turn!  You 
may not interfere with their attacks or target them with 
any card (however, you may play cards that affect all 
players, such as New World Order cards. The abilities of 
your Groups and Resources (even ones that work all the 
time at no cost) do not affect a rival who has not finished 
his first turn. 
Exception: If someone attacks you during his first turn, 
you are free to respond against that player in any way 
you can. 
Turn Sequence 
Each turn has the following steps: 
Beginning of Turn 
During this portion of your turn, you may only use 
Action tokens to buy Plot cards, to power Plots or special 
abilities that directly affect one of the Beginning of Turn 
phases listed below, or in response to some other Plot, 
special ability, or action. Plots and special abilities that 
do not require an Actio n token are not affected by this 
restriction. 
(1) Draw the top card from your Plot deck , if you 
wish. At the same time, you may exchange Action 
tokens on your Groups for additional Plot card draws 
(see “Any Time” Moves, p. 3). 
(2) Draw the top card from your Group deck , if you 
wish. 
(3) Make one automatic takeover, if you wish. Choose 
any Group or Resource from your hand. You bring it into 
play automatically —  no die roll is required. 
If you choose a Group, place it so its inco ming control 
arrow aligns with an outgoing control arrow in your 
Power Structure, without overlapping any other Group 
(see Control Arrows , p.  6). You may not duplicate a 
Group already in play unless a card specifically allows it. 
If you choose a Resource, put it beside your Power 
Structure. You may not duplicate a Unique Resource 
already in play unless a card specifically allows it. 
(4) Place an Action token on each of your Groups  that 
doesn’t already have one (see Action Tokens, p. 3). Some 
Resources (the ones that have the word “Action” at the 
bottom) also get Action tokens. 
Main Phase 
(5) Attempt attacks or other Main Phase actions.  
During the Main Phase of your turn, you may perform 
these actions as many times as you like (except the ones 
that say “once per turn”), in any order: 
• Attack to control or destroy a Group:  This uses an 
action from the attacking Group. (See Attacks, p. 7) 
• Move a Group to a different cont rol arrow:  You 
may spend an action to move a Group during the Main 
Phase of your own turn. A Group can be moved to 
another player’s Power Structure during the Main Phase 
of either player’s turn, if both players agree and one of 
them pays the Action token c ost. (See Moving Groups, 
p. 12) 
• Create or move links:  Some special abilities work 
with specific “linked” cards. (See Links, p. 14) 
• Give or trade away a Resource you have in play:  
You may give a rival one of your Resources during the 
Main Phase of either of your turns, as long as you have 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
not used the Resource earlier in the turn. The Resource 
is then linked to the recipient’s Illuminati; he can re-link 
it during the Main Phase of his turn. (See  Gifts and 
Trades, p. 12) 
• Play a Resource:  Once per turn, you may spend an 
Illuminati action to bring a Resource from your hand 
into play. 
• Trade an Illuminati action for a Group card:  Once 
per turn, you may spend an Illumi nati action to draw a 
Group card from your deck. 
End of Turn 
(6) Use Plots or special abilities  that happen “at the 
end of your turn” (such as the Bermuda Triangle ’s 
special ability). 
(7) Knock. Rap on the table to alert the other players 
that you’re finished. An evil laugh is appropriate here. 
At this time, any player(s) (including the one who just 
knocked) who has achieved one of his Goals may declare 
victory. If someone declares victory, any player may use 
Plots or special abilities to thwart or secure t he victory. 
Action tokens may be used to buy more Plot cards or to 
power Plots and special abilities. However, nobody can 
make an attack (it’s not the Main Phase of anybody’s 
turn) unless a Plot or special ability allows it. 
If one player declares victory and is not thwarted, he 
wins! If two or more players declare victory and are not 
thwarted, they share a victory... unless they are factions 
of the same Illuminati (see Winning the Game, p. 16). 
If no one wins, the current turn  ends and the next 
player to the left starts his turn. Play continues 
counterclockwise until a player or coalition of players 
wins. 
Note: If any Plot or special ability says that your turn 
ends “immediately,” skip the rest of the turn sequence —  
the current turn ends and the next player starts his turn. 
Yes, this means that no one can win during the turn that 
was cut short! 
“Any Time” Moves 
You may do the following things during any part of 
your turn, or even during somebody else’s turn, unless a 
rule or card text prevents it: 
• Trade Action tokens for Plot cards: At any time, you 
may exchange one Action token from your Illuminati or 
two Action tokens from your other Groups for one Plot 
card drawn from your deck. This does not count as an 
“action” by the Group(s) that provide the tokens, and 
your rivals cannot use action-canceling Plots or abilities 
to prevent it. 
• Use a special ability of one of your Groups or 
Resources: Some abilities can be used at any time; 
others are limited to certain times or circumst ances. 
Read the card text to see how its special ability works, 
when you may use it, and what costs (actions, discards, 
etc) you must pay. 
• Play a Plot card:  As with special abilities, read the 
card text to see how the Plot works, when you may use 
it, and what costs you must pay. 
• Discard any card from your hand or return a Plot 
card to your deck: You may voluntarily get rid of cards. 
If you have too many Plot cards (see Limits on Plot 
Cards, p. 5) or Goals (see Winning the Game, p. 16) in 
your hand, you must immediately get rid of the excess. 
(See Discards, p. 4 and Returning Plots to Your Deck , 
p. 5) 
• Give away or trade cards from your  hand: You can 
give gifts or make trades as part of your negotiation 
strategy. (See Gifts and Trades, p. 12) 
• Aid or oppose an attack: Whenever a player (you or 
somebody else) makes an attack, you may aid or oppose 
it unless something prevents you from getting involved, 
such as Privilege. (See Aiding or Opposing Attacks , 
p. 8) 
It’s usually wise to avoid using up all your Plots and 
Action tokens during your turn, so you’ll have some 
available to de fend yourself or meddle with your rivals’ 
plans. If you don’t use up your Action tokens before 
your turn comes around again, you can trade them in for 
Plot cards just before you get new Action tokens (but 
keep in mind that you may be vulnerable to certain 
attacks, such as the Giant Kudzu...) 
ACTION TOKENS 
Each of your Groups that has no Action token gets one 
at the beginning of your turn. Some Plots and special 
abilities allow a Group to get extra Action tokens, or to 
get another Action token even though it already has one. 
Some Resources (the ones that say “Action” on the 
bottom) also get Action tokens. These Action tokens are 
replenished just like the ones on Groups (i.e. one for 
each of these Resources that doesn’t already have one). 
Note that Action toke ns from Resources cannot be 
exchanged for Plot cards. 
A Group cannot get Action tokens if its Power is 
reduced to 0 (however, Groups that start with printed 
Power 0 get Action tokens normally). 
A Group spends an Action token when it makes an 
attack or when it aids or opposes another Group’s attack. 
In some cases, a Group or Resource spends an Action 
token when it uses a special ability or powers a Plot card 
—  follow the instructions on the cards. Thus, a Group 
can only do one of these things each turn, unle ss it 
somehow gets an extra Action token. 
You may remove an Action token from a Group or 
Resource you control, if for some reason you want to. 
Illuminati Action Tokens 
The Action token(s) on your Illuminati are especially 
useful, even aside from their raw Power. Spend them 
wisely. There are some powerful Plots and special 
abilities that require an Illuminati action to use. During 
the Main Phase of your turn, an Illuminati action can 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

4 
allow you to take over a Resource or draw an extra 
Group card. 
POWER STRUCTURES 
As play develops, your holdings might look like this: 
Your Illuminati card (1) is in front of you. Connected 
to it are the Groups that make up the rest of your Power 
Structure (2). Beside it are your Resources (3) and any 
exposed Plots, face up (4). Y our Plot and Group decks 
(5, 6) are ready for your next draws. Your discards are 
off to the side, face up. 
You will also be holding a hand of Group, Resource, 
and Plot cards. Some of the Plot cards may be “exposed” 
and face-up on the table in front of you. 
Once a Group is in your Power Structure, it stays until 
something removes it. You may not simply discard it 
(for instance, you cannot dump Peaceful Groups to 
prevent Shangri-La from winning). 
In Play vs. Just Played 
A Group or Resource is “in play” if it is controlled by 
a player. A Plot is “in play” if it is left on the table to 
mark an ongoing effect, such as a New World Order 
(p. 13), or is linked to some Group or Resource in play. 
While a player attempts to control a Grou p from his 
hand, the Group he just played is not considered to be in 
play until he successfully takes control of it. Plots and 
special abilities that affect Groups “in play” do not affect 
Groups that were just played from the owner’s hand. 
However, other p layers may interfere in the owner’s 
attack to control the just -played Group (see Aiding or 
Opposing Attacks, p. 8). 
Note that if the owner fails to control a Group played 
from his hand and discards it, that Group was never in 
play. Another copy of that Group card may be played 
later by any player. 
THE CARDS 
There are three basic types of cards in INWO: Plots, 
Groups, and Resources. Illuminati are a special kind of 
Group. 
Many cards allow exceptions to the usual rules! The 
instructions on a card always take precedence over this 
rulebook, except for the Meta -Rules (p.  17). See the 
Glossary (p. 18) for a list of terms used in defining the 
effects of various cards. 
Discards 
Discarded cards go face -up (unless a card says to 
discard cards face -down or without looking at them). 
Other players may have the ability to “scavenge” from 
your discards (including face-down ones). 
When a card is discarded, it is permanently removed 
from play unless a Plot or special ability is immediately 
used to recover it. 
You may discard any card in your hand at any time, 
except in the middle of a multiple -card draw or 
immediately after someone attempts to look at or steal 
your cards. 
Plot Cards 
Plot cards represent Illuminated plots... the secret 
maneuvers and dirty tricks used in world domination. 
When a Plot card is played, it is kept on the table for 
the duration of its effect and then discarded. For 
instance, Plot cards that affect an attack are d iscarded 
after the attack is resolved. Linked Plots (p. 14) and New 
World Order cards (p. 13) remain on the table 
indefinitely, unless something removes them from play. 
Some Plots can be used at any time; others can only be 
used at certain times or in response to certain events. 
Some Plots work automatically; others require a die roll. 
Some require you to spend Action tokens or discard 
cards; others are free. Follow the directions on the card. 
You may not play a Plot card immediately after 
someone attempts to look at or steal your Plot cards just 
to get it out of reach. However, you may play a Plot card 
to counter the attempt. 
Unless the card says otherwise, all costs to play a Plot 
card must be provided by the player who used it. 
How to Get Plot Cards 
At the beginning of your turn, you may draw a Plot 
card from the top of your deck. At any time, you may 
draw additional Plot cards by exchanging one Illuminati 
Action token or two Action tokens from other Groups for 
each Plot draw. 
Some Plots and special abilities let you draw more 
cards, choose cards from out of your Plot deck, or steal 
cards from rivals. You are never required to draw cards, 
and there is no penalty for running out of cards in your 
deck. 
Types of Plots 
Most Plots are one of a kind —  read the card and 
follow the instructions. Some Plots fall into special 
families: 
+10 Plots: A Plot which gives a Group a +10 Power 
or Resistance bonus may be used either to boost the 
Power of the Group’s ac tion or to defend the Group 
against an attack. If used to boost an action, the +10 
bonus lasts only until that action is resolved. If used for 
defense, the +10 bonus lasts until the end of the turn and 
1 
 
2 
 2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
4 
4 
5 
 6 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

5 
counts only for defense. In either case, the +10 bonus  
does not count for any Goal. 
Attribute Freeze: An Attribute Freeze can be used to 
prevent all Groups with a certain attribute from acting 
(except to defend itself against an attack) for the rest of 
the turn, or to cancel a single action by a Group with 
that attribute. 
Paralyze: A paralyzed Group cannot spend Action 
tokens and cannot use any special ability or linked 
Resource (even ones that normally work all the time at 
no cost). Control of a paralyzed Group does not count 
for any Goal. Puppets of a paraly zed Group are not 
affected; however, the paralyzed Group cannot be given 
any new puppets. 
Power Increase: A Power-increasing Plot is linked to 
a Group of a certain type to increase its Power to the 
value stated on the card. They have no effect on a 
Group t hat already has Power greater than or equal to 
the stated value. 
Zap: A Zap produces its effect on an entire Power 
Structure until it is removed. Any player may spend an 
Illuminati action at any time to remove all Zaps from 
one player (himself or somebody else). 
Hidden and Exposed Plots 
When you draw a Plot card, it normally goes into your 
hand, hidden from your rivals. However, some Plots and 
special abilities cause Plot cards to become exposed. 
This reveals them to all your rivals, and also makes them 
vulnerable to certain Plots or special abilities that allow 
rivals to steal or discard them! 
You may voluntarily expose your Plot cards, if for 
some reason you want to. 
When one of your Plots is exposed, turn it face -up in 
front of you. It stays exposed until  it’s played, returned 
to your deck, stolen, discarded, or hidden again using a 
Plot or special ability. 
You may show a hidden Plot to individual rivals, and 
then keep it hidden. They can tell others what they saw, 
of course. Or they can lie. 
You must alwa ys show how many  hidden Plots you 
have, if someone asks. 
Limits on Plot Cards 
When it is not your turn, you may hold up to 5 Plot 
cards in your hand. Both hidden and exposed Plots count 
against your limit. Some cards increase this limit or let 
you hold Plo t cards without counting them against this 
limit. If you have too many Plot cards in your hand, you 
must immediately get rid of the excess by playing them, 
giving or trading them away, discarding them, or 
returning them to your deck! 
Note that some Plot ca rds stay on the table when 
played, as a marker for a continuing effect. After you’ve 
played them, they are no longer in your hand and do not 
count against your limit. 
This limit applies only to Plot cards and only when it 
is not your turn. You may hold any number of Plot cards 
during your turn, and you may hold any number of 
Group and Resource cards at any time. 
Returning Plots to Your Deck 
You may return a Plot to your deck if you have too 
many in your hand (or if you just want to get it out of 
your hand).  You can put it on the top, the bottom, or 
anywhere in the middle, depending on how soon you 
plan to draw it again! 
You may do this at any time, except in the middle of a 
multiple-card draw or immediately after someone uses a 
Plot or ability that lets them see or steal Plots from either 
your hand or your deck. 
This applies only to Plot cards —  you may not return 
Group or Resource cards to your deck. 
Group Cards 
Groups are the cards that make up your Power 
Structure. Typically, a Group card represents the 
leadership of the group, or the secret cabal that controls 
it. For instance, the Dentists card does not represent all 
dentists... just the secret leaders of the dentists’ 
conspiracy. 
The Group’s name (1) is 
at the top. The main text 
box (2) describes the Group 
and its special abilities. The 
large numbers near the 
bottom are its Power (3a) 
and Resistance (3b). At the 
bottom left are its 
Alignments (4), if any. At 
the bottom right are its 
Attributes (5), if any. At the 
edges are its control arrows (6). 
How to Get Group Cards 
At the beginning of your turn, you may draw a Group 
card from the top of your deck. Once per turn during the 
Main Phase of your turn, you may spend an Action token 
from your Illuminati to draw a Group card. 
Some Plots and special abilities let you draw more 
cards, choose cards from out of your Group deck, or 
steal cards from rivals. You are never required to draw 
cards, and there is no penalty for running out of cards in 
your deck. 
Bringing Groups Into Play 
You may use your automatic takeove r to take over a 
Group from your hand and put it into your Power 
Structure. 
During the Main Phase of your turn, you may attack to 
control Groups from your hand (see Attack to Control , 
p. 8). If you succeed, you take over the t arget Group. 
You may do this several times each turn, as long as you 
have actions available. 
Some Plots and special abilities allow you to take over 
a Group from your hand without having to attack or 
make a die roll. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

6 
Once a Group is in play, you may not br ing another 
copy of the same Group into play unless some card 
specifically permits it! (Illuminati Groups are an 
exception; multiple copies of the same Illuminati can be 
in play as rival factions.) 
Types of Groups 
There are four types of Groups: 
Illuminati: These are the Secret Masters. Each player 
has only one Illuminati Group, at the center of his 
Power Structure. These are black and have a horizontal 
design, rather than vertical. The backs show a hand (like 
Plots) rather than a puppet like the other Grou ps. This 
lets you hide extra Illuminati cards in your Plot deck, if 
you wish. (See Duplicate Cards, p. 14 for one reason to 
do this.) 
Places: These represent the cabal that controls that 
place’s government. Places are vulnerable to Disasters 
(see p. 12). 
Personalities: These represent key individuals with 
their loyal henchmen and tools. Personalities are 
vulnerable to Assassinations (see p. 12). 
Organizations: Most Gro ups are Organizations, not 
particularly associated with any place or personality. 
Alignment 
There are ten different alignments. They are shown at 
the bottom left of Group cards. Some Groups have one 
alignment, some have several, and a few have none. It is 
easier for a Group to control Groups with identical 
alignments, and to destroy those of opposite alignments. 
Meanings of the alignments in INWO: 
Government: An arm of any government; its opposite 
is Corporate. 
Corporate: A business or coalition of business es; its 
opposite is Government. 
Liberal: Politically “left,” whatever that means; its 
opposite is Conservative. 
Conservative: Usually mad at the Liberals; its 
opposite is Liberal. 
Peaceful: Philosophically opposed to the use of force; 
its opposite is Violent. 
Violent: Armed and/or dangerous; not necessarily 
vicious; its opposite is Peaceful. 
Straight: Socially middle -of-the-road; Joe Sixpack; 
its opposite is Weird. 
Weird: Peculiar, offbeat, not like the neighbors; its 
opposite is Straight. 
Criminal: Extorti ng money from citizens through 
force, fraud or threat, and/or committing notorious 
crimes. It has no opposite. 
Fanatic: Holding to a limited system of beliefs in 
defiance of all others. Any two Fanatic Groups are 
considered “opposite” to each other. 
Changing Alignments:  Some cards can change the 
alignments of Groups, either temporarily or permanently. 
These changes last even after the Group is destroyed 
(yes, sometimes it matters) —  permanent changes are 
still permanent; temporary changes still expire after their 
usual duration. 
A Group can never have two alignments that are 
opposite; if it is Violent, for instance, and something 
makes it Peaceful, it is no longer Violent. Likewise, a 
Group cannot have “double alignments.” If it is Violent 
and something happens to make it Violent again, there is 
no further effect. 
Attributes 
Certain “attributes,” in italic, may appear at the bottom 
right of a Group card. These define which cards are 
affected by certain Plots or special abilities. For instance, 
Computer is an attribute. A card that affects “all 
Computer Groups” affects only those Groups with 
Computer in the lower right. 
Attributes have no automatic effect on each other. For 
instance, a Computer Group has no special bonus or 
penalty to attack another Computer Gr oup unless some 
Plot or special ability says it does. 
Power 
A Group’s Power is a measure of its ability to 
dominate other Groups. Some Groups have two Power 
numbers —  for example, 7/4. The first number is regular 
Power, which is used when the Group makes a  direct 
attack on any other Group, or aids or opposes an attack 
on a Group with the appropriate alignment (see Attacks, 
p. 7). The second number is Global Power, which can be 
used to aid or oppose attacks regardless of alignme nts 
(see Global Power, p. 8). 
When something changes a Group’s Power, the new 
Power is effective for all purposes unless a card specifies 
otherwise. Note that temporary Power bonuses (from 
+10 Plot cards, for instance) don’t count toward Goals. 
A Group with a printed Power of 0 gets Action tokens 
unless its card says otherwise, but if a Group’s Power is 
reduced to 0, it loses its Action token(s) and cannot get 
more until its Power is increased above 0. Power can 
never be reduced below 0. 
If a Group’s Power or Resistance has a *, read the 
instructions on the card! 
Resistance 
This is the Group’s ability to resist domination. High 
Resistance makes a Group harder to take over... and 
easier to defend, once you control it. 
Illuminati Groups have no Resistance, because they 
cannot be attacked directly. 
Control Arrows 
Illuminati cards have four outgoing control arrows. 
Each of these can be used to control one Group. 
Other Groups have one incoming 
control arrow, and 0 to 3 outgoing 
control arrows. When you take 
over a Group, put its incoming 
arrow next to an outgoing arrow of its master. 
Master 
 Puppet 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

7 
It does not matter if a card is upside -down or 
sideways, as long as the arrows line up properly and no 
Group overlaps any other Group. 
Special Abilities 
Every Group has a special ability. Follow the 
directions on the card. 
Unless the card says otherwise, all costs to use a 
special ability must be provided by the owner of the 
Group. 
If a Group is destroyed, its special abilities 
immediately stop working. 
Resource Cards 
Resource cards represent Illuminated secrets... hidden 
knowledge, magic artifacts, ultra -tech devices and other 
tools of world domination. 
All Resources are linked to your Illuminati by default 
unless they are linked to another Group (see Links, 
p. 14). If a Group is captured, its linked Resources go 
with it. If a Group is destroyed, its linked Resources are 
also destroyed. 
Some Resources have the word “Action” at the 
bottom, to show that they get Action tokens. They follow 
the same Action token rules that Groups do, but their 
Action tokens cannot be traded for Plot cards. 
How to Get Resource Cards 
Resource cards have the same back design as Groups, 
and are drawn from the Group deck (see How to Get 
Group Cards, p. 5). 
Bringing Resources Into Play 
You may use your automatic takeover to play a 
Resource from your hand. 
Once per turn during the Main Phase of your turn, you 
may spend an Illuminati action to play a Resource from 
your hand. 
Some Plots and special abilities allow you to play a 
Resource from your hand. 
Resources have no control arrows, and don’t go into 
your Power Structure. They are placed beside it. 
Types of Resources 
Some Resources fall into certain types (listed at the 
bottom of the card). This determines which Resources 
are affected by certain Plots and special abilities. 
Artifact: A particularly unusual object, usually with a 
long and secret history. 
Gadget: A bizarre device beyond the ken of normal 
technology. 
Magic: An item of mystical power. Any attack which 
uses a Group, Plot, or Resource identified as Magic is 
considered to be a Magic attack (some targets are 
immune to Magic attacks, and others can only be 
affected by Magic attacks.) 
Unique: A Unique Resource is a one -of-a-kind item. 
Once a Unique Resource is brought into play, no further 
copies of that Resource may be played. If a Unique 
Resource is destroyed, no more copies of that Resource 
may be played. 
Special Abilities 
Every Resource provides a special ability. Follo w the 
directions on the card. 
Unless the card says otherwise, all costs to use a 
special ability must be provided by the owner of the 
Resource. 
If a Resource is destroyed, its special abilities 
immediately stop working. 
If a Resource is linked to a Group, it provides its 
special ability to that Group. In that case, the special 
abilities provided by that Resource may be nullified by 
Plots or special abilities that target the linked Group. 
ATTACKS 
In an attack, a Group spends an Action token to 
attempt to control or destroy another Group. The success 
of the attack is determined by rolling two dice. 
Attacks are normally made during the Main Phase of 
your turn. However, some Plot cards and special abilities 
allow you to make an attack at any time (see Instant 
Attacks, p. 11). 
Illuminati Groups can attack, but cannot be attacked! 
The only way to destroy Illuminati is to take away all the 
Groups they control. 
There is no normal way to attack a Resource, but some 
Plot cards and special abilities can affect them. 
Announcing an Attack 
You may either pick a Group from your own hand to 
attack, or attack a Group in someone else’s Power 
Structure. 
You must announce which Group is attacking, the type 
of attack, and the target. ( Example: “The KKK will 
attack to control the TV Preachers.”) 
Any Group may attack any other Group, regardless of 
alignment. Alignment determines which Groups can aid 
or oppose the attack, but not which Group can start the 
attack. However, it’s easier to capture a Group if  the 
attacker has matching alignments. 
Calling Off an Attack 
After you announce an attack, you can change your 
mind and call it off —  until you play a Plot card, play an 
“agents” card (see Hidden Agents, p. 10), or remove an 
Action token from a Group. At that point, your attack is 
committed. You must use whatever cards and actions 
you have committed. Once the attack is committed, any 
cards or tokens your rivals play are also committed, 
unless you let them take something back. 
If rivals use cards or actions to interfere, but you call 
off your attack before it’s committed, they get their cards 
or actions back. 
If you call off an attack on a card from your hand, 
return it to your hand. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

8 
Note that if an attack requires a Plot card (s ee Instant 
Attacks, p.  11) then you cannot call it off, because you 
played the Plot card at the moment you declared the 
attack. 
No Duplicates in the Same Attack! 
A Group that has two or more Action tokens may not 
use more than  one in the same attack unless it’s 
defending itself. 
No player may use duplicates of the same Plot card in 
a single attack, or to defend against a single attack, even 
if the duplicate Plot cards are used to help two different 
Groups. 
If an action or Plot is canceled (see p. 15), then it is 
treated as if it never happened —  you may replace it with 
a duplicate if you have one available. 
Attack to Control 
This is an attempt to take over a Group from your own 
hand... or to steal a Group from a rival. 
To make an Attack to Control, your attacking Group 
must spend an Action token and have at least one control 
arrow open (no puppet there, and no other Group in the 
space where a puppet would go). If a Group has no open 
control arrow, it cannot try to control another Group. 
The strength of the attack is the attacker’s Power 
minus the defender’s Resistance. You must roll that 
number or less on two dice. So roll low! 
If you attack a Group from your own hand, you must 
still roll to control it, and other players may try to 
interfere. 
Example: If a Group with a Power of 6 attacks a 
Group with a Resistance of 2, the attack strength is 4. If 
the attacking Group has a Power of 10, the attack 
strength is 8 —  a much easier number to roll at or below 
on two dice. 
Automatic Failure 
A roll of 11 or 12 always means the attack failed, no 
matter how high the strength of the attack was. 
Alignments 
The alignments of the attacking and defending Groups 
are very important. Identical alignments make control 
easier; opposed alignments make it harder. 
If the attacking and defending Groups have any 
identical alignments, the attack strength gets a +4 bonus 
for each one. If they have any opposite alignments, the 
attack strength gets a –4 penalty for each one. 
(Remember, any two Fanatic Groups are opposite to 
each other!) 
Example: A Weird Fanatic Group is trying to control a 
Straight Fanatic Group. There are two sets of opposite 
alignments, so the attack has a –8 penalty! Maybe this 
attack is a bad idea... 
Attributes 
These words (in italics, in the bottom right  corner) are 
not the same as alignments. They don’t affect an attack 
unless a card specifically says they do. 
Aiding or Opposing Attacks 
Groups other than the attacker can participate in an 
attack, either to aid (add the Group’s Power to the attack) 
or oppose (add the Group’s Power to the defense). The 
aiding or opposing Group must spend an Action token, 
but does not need to have an open control arrow. 
The target of the attack may spend an Action token to 
oppose the attack. The Power of an action spent by a  
Group to defend itself is doubled. If the action’s Power is 
already doubled, it is tripled instead; if it’s already 
tripled, it is quadrupled instead; and so on. If the target 
has more than one token, it can spend them all, and each 
one gets the bonus! 
The attacker and defender can have their other Groups 
aid or oppose the attack (usually, the attacker will want 
to aid and the defender will want to oppose... but you can 
do the opposite if for some reason you want to). Players 
other than the attacker and de fender can interfere in the 
attack by aiding or opposing it —  unless the attack is 
Privileged (see p.  11). Time for some wheeling and 
dealing! 
Alignment is important for determining which Groups 
can aid or oppose an attack. A Group can aid an Attack 
to Control if it has at least one alignment identical to the 
target. A Group can oppose an Attack to Control (that is, 
defend the target) if it has at least one alignment 
identical to the target, or if it is the target’s master or 
puppet. As noted above, the target may defend itself, and 
gets a bonus when doing so. 
However, aiding and opposing Groups do not get 
alignment bonuses and penalties. Those apply only to the 
Group that is leading the attack. 
Example: Russia (Power 4, Violent , Government) 
makes an attack to control W.I.T.C.H. (Resistance 6, 
Fanatic, Weird, Violent). This attack has a +4 bonus 
because the attacker and defender are both Violent.  The 
attack strength is 4 – 6 + 4, or 2... not likely to succeed. 
However, the Pentagon (Power 6, Straight, Violent, 
Government), the Semiconscious Liberation Army  
(Power 1, Weird, Liberal, Violent, Criminal), and the 
American Autoduel Association  (Power 1, Violent, 
Weird) aid the attack. This raises the strength of the 
attack to 2 + 6 + 1 + 1, or 10. 
The aiding Groups do not get bonuses or penalties for 
alignment. It does not matter that the Pentagon has an 
alignment opposed to W.I.T.C.H. (Straight vs. Weird) or 
that the American Autoduel Association  and 
Semiconscious Liberation Army each have two matching 
alignments with W.I.T.C.H. (Violent, Weird). All that 
matters is that each aiding Group has at least one 
alignment in common with the target. 
Global Power 
Some Groups have a second Power number —  Global 
Power. For instance, if a Group’s power is 5/3, the 3 is 
its Global Power. This represents power that crosses all 
ideological boundaries... real power. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

9 
If a Group’s alignments don’t let it use its normal 
Power to aid or oppose an attack, it can still use its 
Global Power. Thus, Groups with  Global Power are 
more flexible. 
Example: The Clone Arrangers are a Violent Criminal 
Group with Power 6/2. It can aid or oppose an attack to 
control another Violent or Criminal Group with its 6 
Power. It can aid or oppose an attack to control any other 
Group with its 2 Global Power. 
Plots and special abilities that change a Group’s Power 
do not affect its Global Power unless they specifically 
say so. A Group can never have Global Power higher 
than its regular Power —  if its regular Power is 
decreased below its Global Power, its Global Power is 
temporarily decreased to equal its regular Power. 
Using Plots and Abilities in Attacks 
Many Plots and special abilities provide attack and 
defense bonuses, or otherwise affect the progress of an 
attack. Some of them ca n only be used by the attacking 
or defending player; others can be used by any player 
who chooses to interfere in the attack. Read the cards. 
Note: An “any attempt” attack bonus applies when one 
of your Groups makes an attack, not when you help 
some other player in one of his attacks. 
Resistance to Control 
Each Group (except Illuminati, which cannot be 
attacked) has a Resistance to control. Subtract this from 
the attacker’s Power in any attack, as described above. 
Controlling Alignment:  A Group is more loya l if it 
agrees with its masters’ ideals. A Group gets +4 to its 
Resistance for every alignment that is the same as that of 
its master (except Fanatic —  remember, one Fanatic is 
the opposite of another Fanatic). Opposing alignments 
don’t matter. 
Power Stru cture Position:  Groups already in play 
become harder to attack if they’re near the center of the 
Power Structure. A Group that is directly controlled by 
the Illuminati gets a +10 defensive bonus! If it is one 
Group away, it gets a +5 defensive bonus. If it ’s farther 
away, it gets no bonus. 
Special Abilities: Some Groups have special abilities 
(shown on the card) that help protect them against 
attacks. 
Opposing Power: As explained above, the target, the 
target’s master, the target’s puppet(s), Groups with an  
alignment identical to the target, and Groups with Global 
Power may oppose the attack. 
Resolving the Attack 
The strength or an attack can go back and forth several 
times as players use actions, Plots, and special abilities 
—  an attack is declared, the def ender opposes it, the 
attacker aids it, a third player interferes to help the 
defender, a fourth player interferes to help the attacker, 
and so on... The final strength of the attack is not settled 
until no player is able or willing to do anything else to 
change it. 
At that point, the attacker rolls two dice, and the attack 
succeeds if the roll is less than or equal to the attack 
strength. If the final attack strength is less than 2, the 
attack always fails —  you don’t even get to roll the dice 
(and thus ca n’t use any Plots or special abilities to 
control the die roll). 
Note: In all INWO calculations, changes to a specific 
value come first, then multiplication or division, then 
addition or subtraction. 
Multipliers are not cumulative; use only the single 
largest multiplier and ignore the rest. 
Example: 
Japan (Power 6, Government, Peaceful) makes an 
attack to control the B.A.T.F. (Resistance 2, 
Government, Violent). The attacker uses two +10 Plots 
(Martial Law and Martyrs) to boost Japan’s Power for 
the attack and spends actions from the N.S.A. (Power 5, 
Government) and Canada (Power 3, Peaceful, Liberal, 
Government) to aid the attack. The total Power behind 
the attack is 6 + 10 +10 + 5 + 3, or 34. 
The B.A.T.F. is a puppet of the Mafia (Criminal, 
Violent), which is a puppet of the Illuminati. Thus, the 
B.A.T.F. has one alignment in common with its master 
(+4 bonus) and is one Group away from the Illuminati 
(+5 bonus). This gives it a defense of 2 + 4 + 5, or 11. 
The attack strength is 34 – 11, or 23. The attacker and 
target are both Government (+4 bonus), but one is 
Peaceful and the other is Violent ( –4 penalty). These 
effects cancel out, leaving the attack strength at 23. 
The defender links the Plot card Commitment (which 
increases the target’s Resistance to 8) t o the B.A.T.F. 
and plays the New World Order card Solidarity (which 
doubles the Resistance of all Groups). The target’s 
defense is now 25 (change Resistance to 8, double it, 
then add the +4 and +5 bonuses). The attack strength is 
now 34 – 25, or 9. 
The defender spends the B.A.T.F.’s action to oppose 
the attack. The B.A.T.F. has a Power of 3, and it gets 
doubled Power from the Necronomicon linked to it and 
+2 Power from the Clipper Chip the owner has in play. 
Because the action is being spent in self -defense, the 
doubling is increased to a tripling. The action has a 
Power of 11 (Power 3, triple it, add the +2 bonus). The 
attack strength is now 9 – 11, or –2. The attacker will 
+10 
+10 
 +10 
 +5 
+5 
+0 
+0 
+5 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

10 
not even roll the dice unless the attack strength is 
increased to at least 2. 
A thir d player decides to interfere in favor of the 
attack, and uses the Plot card Are We Having Fun Yet?  
to cancel the B.A.T.F.’s action. This action is now used 
up without any effect, so the attack strength is back at 9. 
A fourth player decides to interfere in  favor of the 
defense, and opposes the attack with an action from the 
Hackers (Power 3/2, Weird, Fanatic). Since the Hackers 
don’t have any alignments in common with the 
B.A.T.F., they use their Global Power. The attack 
strength is now 9 – 2, or 7. 
The def ender now spends an action from the 
Wargamers (Power 1, Weird), which is a puppet of the 
B.A.T.F. (and thus eligible to oppose the attack even 
though it has no common alignments or Global Power). 
The attack strength is now 7 – 1, or 6. 
Everybody agrees tha t they aren’t going to do 
anything else to affect the attack strength, so the 
attacker rolls the dice. If he rolls 6 or less on two dice, 
the attack succeeds; if not, it fails. 
Whoops! 
If you forget to declare a bonus during an attack, 
whether it’s for attack or defense, you lose it. When the 
dice are rolled, it’s over. 
If you deliberately “forget” to declare a bonus and a 
rival points it out, you must include it. However, you 
can’t be required to use a bonus that requires you to pay 
a cost (actions, discards, etc). 
Results of an Attack to Control 
If Your Attack Failed: If the target belonged to another 
player, it stays where it was. 
If it came from your own hand, you may try again if 
you have any actions left. However, if you have not 
succeeded by the end o f your turn, your agents are 
revealed and eliminated —  you must discard that Group 
card! (This is a reason to have two cards for the same 
Group... it can give you a second chance.) 
If Your Attack Succeeded:  The target is captured! 
Place it in your Power St ructure with its incoming 
control arrow touching any outgoing control arrow of the 
Group that attacked it. 
If the target controlled any puppets, they are also 
captured! When placed in your Power Structure, they 
should keep the same position, relative to th eir master, 
that they had originally. If that makes some cards 
overlap, you may rearrange any new cards that overlap, 
as long as each one keeps the same master. New Groups 
that still cannot fit must be discarded! 
Note: A newly-captured Group does not get a n Action 
token. Any tokens it had before the attack are removed. 
It cannot get an action that turn unless a card specifically 
gives one to a newly-captured Group. (However, Groups 
brought into play by automatic takeover do get an Action 
token on the same t urn —  automatic takeovers happen 
before Action token placement.) 
Attack to Destroy 
You may also attack to destroy any Group in play 
except an Illuminati... even one of your own Groups. 
You may not destroy a Group from your hand —  the 
target has to be in pl ay. An Attack to Destroy works like 
an Attack to Control, except: 
(1) Instead of rolling “Power minus Resistance,” roll 
“Power minus Power.” That is, the target defends with 
its Power rather than its Resistance. Its closeness to the 
Illuminati still counts  for defense, unless you’re 
destroying one of your own Groups. The target’s 
common alignments with its master do not help —  those 
increase Resistance, which is not used in this attack! 
(2) You may try to destroy a Group in your own Power 
Structure. The tar get does not get a defense bonus for 
closeness to the Illuminati in this case. However, no 
Group may attack itself, or aid an attack on itself! 
(3) Unlike Groups destroy each other more easily. The 
strength of an Attack to Destroy gets a +4 bonus for each 
opposite alignment, and a –4 penalty for each identical 
alignment. 
(4) To aid an Attack to Destroy, a Group must have at 
least one alignment opposite to the target. To oppose an 
Attack to Destroy uses the same rules as opposing an 
Attack to Control. (That is, a Group may oppose if it has 
at least one alignment identical to the target, or if it is the 
target’s master or puppet. The target may defend itself, 
and gets the same bonus as it does against an Attack to 
Control.) 
A Group with Global Power may use it  to aid or 
oppose regardless of alignments. 
(5) A Group does not need an open control arrow to 
make an Attack to Destroy. 
(6) If your attack succeeds, the target is permanently 
removed from play. Put the target Group card in your 
own personal “destroyed pi le.” Since many Goals 
depend on destroying Groups, you must keep track of 
which player destroyed each Group. If some Plot or 
special ability says that a destroyed Group no longer 
counts as destroyed, remove its card from the destroyed 
pile. 
(7) A destroyed  Group’s puppets (and their puppets, 
etc) are not destroyed —  they lose their Action tokens 
and go back to the hand of the player who controlled the 
destroyed Group. 
Hidden Agents 
If a card in your hand duplicates a Group that someone 
already controls, it represents hidden agents within that 
Group. You may play your “agents” card any time the 
Group is attacked (either to control or to destroy). 
Only one “agents” card can be used in any one attack. 
The owner of the real Group cannot play an “agents” 
card. Once used, the duplicate card is discarded, whether 
the attack succeeds or fails. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

11 
Playing an "agents" card to aid an attack gives it a +10 
bonus. Playing an “agents” card to oppose an attack 
gives it a –6 penalty. 
If a rival plays a Group card from his hand as an 
automatic takeover, your “agents” card won’t help you... 
yet. The automatic takeover is not an attack. 
However, if a rival tries an Attack to Control against a 
Group from his own hand, you can use an “agents” card 
to defend the Group, giving a –6 to his takeover attempt. 
On the other hand, it might be better to let him bring the 
Group into play... and use your agents to take it (and its 
puppets) away from him later! 
Limits on Attacks 
Privileged Attacks 
An attacker may prevent rivals from interfering w ith 
an attack by declaring it Privileged, using a Plot card or 
special ability. The attacker must announce “Privilege!” 
when first declaring the attack. 
No player other than the attacker and the defender can 
interfere in a Privileged Attack. If the attacke r is trying 
to control a Group from his own hand, nobody else can 
interfere with that attack. No other player can use 
actions, Plots or special abilities on behalf of either side, 
even to cancel the attack.  No other player can give or 
trade cards to either side until the attack is over. 
However, anyone may use a Plot or special ability to 
negate the Privileged status of the attack, turning it into 
an ordinary free-for-all. If Privilege is negated, it cannot 
be regained on that attack. 
After a Privileged At tack is over, other players may 
use Plots or special abilities that affect the die roll —  this 
is not interfering with the attack itself. 
Immunity 
Some special abilities make a Group immune to 
certain other Groups. Those Groups cannot attack the 
immune Gro up, cannot aid any attack on the immune 
Group, and cannot affect the immune Group with any 
special ability. 
If your entire Power Structure is immune to 
something, all your Groups, all your Resources, your 
hand, your decks, and your discard pile are immune! 
Immunity doesn’t work the other way, however. If an 
attacker is immune to a certain Group, that Group can 
still defend against it or interfere with its attack. 
Immunity does not protect against a Plot card, even if 
a Group to which you are immune provided  an action to 
power it. (Plots are directed by the Illuminati themselves, 
not lowly pawns...) 
You can never be immune to something you yourself 
control —  for example, if you control a Group that is 
immune to Magic attacks, you cannot trigger the 
immunity b y throwing one of your own Magic 
Resources into the attack. 
Example: The Discordian Society ’s entire Power 
Structure is immune to Straight and Government Groups. 
Another player controls the IRS, a Government Group 
that allows him to “tax” Plot cards from a  rival’s Plot 
deck. Because of Discordia’s immunity, the IRS can’t 
attack Discordia’s Groups, can’t aid attacks on them, and 
can’t use its special ability against the Discordian 
player’s Plot deck. However, when the Discordian player 
makes an attack (to co ntrol a Group from his hand, or 
against another player), the IRS can interfere normally. 
Secret Groups 
Groups with the Attribute Secret are unknown to the 
public, or considered myths, or just not understood. 
Most Groups cannot attack Secret Groups, aid or 
oppose attacks on Secret Groups, aid attacks made by 
Secret Groups, or use their special abilities to affect 
Secret Groups. Special abilities that provide attack 
bonuses, penalties, or immunities do not apply when a 
Secret Group attacks or is attacked. The exceptions are: 
• Illuminati Groups and other Secret Groups interact 
with Secret Groups normally. 
• Resources affect Secret Groups normally, unless the 
Resource is linked to a non-Secret Group. 
• Some Groups have special abilities that specifically 
address Secret Groups. Follow the instructions on the 
card. 
• A Secret Group’s master and puppets may defend 
that Secret Group against attacks and use their special 
abilities to affect it. They may aid that Secret Group’s 
attacks if they are otherwise eligible t o do so (i.e. they 
have the required alignments or Global Power). 
• Plots may affect Secret Groups, even if an action 
from a non -Secret Group is used to power the Plot —  
again, Plots are ultimately directed by the Illuminati 
themselves... 
Instant Attacks 
Some cards allow a special Attack to Destroy, called 
an Instant Attack. Examples include Assassinations and 
(most) Disasters. 
An attack launched by playing a Plot card can be made 
at any time (unless the card says otherwise) —  it is not 
limited to the Main Phase of your turn! For instance, you 
may use an Assassination or Disaster to thwart a rival’s 
victory attempt by taking out one of his Groups... 
The strength of an Instant Attack is the Power of the 
attack minus the Power of the target Group at the 
moment the attack is declared . The target gets its usual 
defense bonus for closeness to its Illuminati (see 
Resistance to Control , p. 9) unless the target’s owner 
launched the Instant Attack. Other modifiers to attack or 
defense do not apply unless they specifically mention 
Instant Attacks, Assassinations, or Disasters (however, a 
Plot or ability that completely forbids an attack will also 
prevent an Instant Attack). 
Groups cannot spend actions to make, aid, or oppose 
Instant Attacks  unless a card specifically permits it. 
When a Group is allowed to use its action in an Instant 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

12 
Attack, cards that affect the Power of that action (such as 
+10 Plots) may be used with the action. 
Instant Attacks may not be combined unless a card 
specifically permits it. 
The target of an Instant Attack may not spend any 
Action tokens, even to defend itself, until the attack is 
resolved. 
An Instant Attack may be canceled by certain Plots 
and special abilities —  in that case, the Instant attack 
never happened! 
Example: 
A Car Bomb  (Power 8) is launched against Gordo 
Remora. Gordo was linked to Self-Esteem before the 
attack (which gives him a Power of 6), and is one Group 
away from his Illuminati (+5 bonus), for a total defense 
of 11. However, the Car Bomb  allows  one Violent or 
Criminal Group to add its Power —  the attacker spends 
the Mafia’s action (Power 6) with New Blood  (+10 
bonus for a Violent Group) to add 16 Power to his 
attack, for a total of 24. The strength of the attack is 24 – 
11, or 13. It looks bad for Gordo... 
Gordo’s owner has Political Correctness (all Liberal 
Groups get +3 Power) and Benefit Concert (+10 bonus 
for a Liberal Group) in his hand. Unfortunately, neither 
of them help —  they’re too late to affect Gordo’s Power 
at the moment of the Car Bomb attack, and neither one 
specifically mentions Instant Attacks or Assassinations. 
Fortunately, he also has a Hoax, which he uses to cancel 
the Car Bomb. 
Assassinations 
An Assassination allows an Instant Attack to Destroy a 
Personality. 
A Personality des troyed by an Assassination is killed, 
and may only be saved or returned to play by cards that 
specifically say that they restore killed or assassinated 
Personalities. A normal Attack to Destroy can strip a 
Personality of power and influence, but not kill i t; a 
Personality destroyed by a normal attack can be returned 
to play the same way as any other destroyed Group. 
Disasters 
A Disaster allows an attack (usually, but not always, 
an Instant) to destroy a Place. 
Disasters can cause Devastation —  see below. So me 
Disasters can completely destroy their targets, if the die 
roll on the attack is good enough. 
The target of a Disaster always loses one Action token, 
if it had any, as soon as the Disaster card is played. It 
gets the Action token back if the Disaster is  canceled 
(because the canceled Disaster never happened). 
Devastation and Relief 
When a target is Devastated, put a special marker on 
it. Remove its Action token(s), if it has any left, and 
those of its puppets, their puppets, and so on down the 
line. These Groups cannot get Action tokens and do not 
count toward victory while the Place remains 
Devastated. 
You may move a Group out from under the Devastated 
Place (see Moving Groups , p.  12) to free it from these 
effects. You may move a Group to an arm of your Power 
Structure afflicted by Devastation, if you really want to, 
but the moved Group will then lose any Action tokens 
and cease to count toward victory. 
While a Place is Devastated, its Power is halved 
(round down) against any  Attack to Destroy. Being 
Devastated again, while already Devastated, has no 
further effect. 
Relief restores a Devastated Place to normal. The Place 
(and its puppets, and their puppets, etc.) will once again 
count toward victory and be able to get Action tokens. 
To give Relief, spend actions  with a total Power three 
times the printed Power of the Devastated Place. These 
actions can be spent at any time by one or more players, 
as long as they are all spent at the same time. 
MOVING GROUPS 
During the Main Phase of your tur n, you may change 
your Power Structure by moving your Groups. You may 
move any Group you control to any open control arrow 
on any Group in play. Any puppets of the Group being 
moved, and their puppets, and so on, move with it, each 
keeping the same position relative to its master. 
Moving a Group costs one Action token. This may be 
from the Group being moved, or its former master, or its 
new master, or your Illuminati! It’s your choice. 
You may give a Group to another player, if both 
players agree, during th e Main Phase of either player’s 
turn. This also costs an action (from the Group, its old 
master, its new master, or either player’s Illuminati). 
Groups in your Power Structure may never overlap. If 
moving a Group would cause some of its puppets (or 
their p uppets, etc.) to overlap, any of them may be 
moved to different control arrows, as long as each keeps 
the same master. Any Group that cannot be prevented 
from overlapping is lost. It and its puppets go back to the 
hand of the player who controlled it before the move. 
GIFTS AND TRADES 
Cards in your hand, including exposed Plots, may be 
traded or given away at any time, except immediately 
after an attempt to look at or steal from your hand or in 
the middle of a multiple-card draw. You may not give or 
trade cards to a participant in a Privileged Attack (p. 11). 
Cards from your hand must go into the hand of the 
player who gets them. 
You may not give away undrawn cards from your 
decks! 
Cards in your Power Structure may be moved to 
another player’s Power Structure (see Moving Groups , 
p. 12). 
You may give away a Resource if you haven’t used it 
yet during the turn. The Resource is linked to the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

13 
recipient’s Illuminati; he may relink it during the Main 
Phase of his turn. 
A trade is just an exchange of gifts. If two players 
agree to a trade, the deal is binding if they make the 
exchange immediately. A deal is not binding if it 
involves a promise of something in the future. 
Example: If you say, “If you give me the Boy Sprouts 
now, I’ll give you a Plot card,” and the other player gives 
you the Boy Sprouts , you must give him a Plot. But if 
you say, “If you give me the Boy Sprouts now, I’ll give 
you a Plot card next turn,” and he hands them over, you 
can break your promise next turn if you want! 
TIMING 
In general, cards take effect in the order they are 
played. Later cards modify earlier ones. 
For instance, it could happen that a player announces 
an attack with Group A; then a rival uses Resource B to 
change Group A i n a way that makes the attack 
impossible; then another rival plays Plot C to destroy 
Resource B, so that Group A’s attack continues. 
Thus, you can use a Plot or special ability to make a 
rival’s just-announced action unsuccessful, or even 
illegal (see Cancellations, Illegal Actions, and Other 
Surprises, p. 15). But you can never announce a play that 
is illegal at the moment it is made, even if the play (if 
allowed) would render itself legal. 
Example: The Discordian Society  is i mmune to all 
Government Groups. The Discordian player uses his 
Illuminati action to power a Plot that changes the 
Nuclear Power Companies’ alignment from Corporate to 
Government. Can the NPCs use their special ability to 
cancel that action, preserving their Corporate status? No! 
The moment they became Government, they became 
unable to use their special ability on Discordia —  they 
can’t “step back in time” and make themselves eligible 
to cancel the Discordian action. 
If an action is canceled, its effects are  also canceled. 
(Example: If a Disaster is canceled, the target gets its lost 
Action token back.) You can’t cancel an action after its 
effects have become irreversible. ( Example: If someone 
looks at your hand, it’s too late to cancel the Plot or 
ability that let him do it —  he’ll still know what he saw.) 
Throwing Away Cards 
If a rival uses a card or special ability to look at or 
steal your cards, you may not protect any of your cards 
by playing them, discarding them, giving or trading them 
away, or returning them to your deck. But if you have a 
Plot or special ability to counteract the Plot or special 
ability that gave him access to your cards, you may use 
it. That’s all you can do about it. 
Speed Play 
A player may not “speed-play” to pre-empt his rivals’ 
reactions. You can’t announce an attack, for instance, 
and instantly roll the dice. You must give other players a 
chance to react to your play. There is no one type of card 
that “trumps” other types and can be speed -played. Be 
courteous. 
The only time that speed of play matters is when cards 
doing the same thing (or mutually exclusive things) are 
played at the same time —  for instance, if two players 
both play Vultures to grab the same card. In that case, the 
first one played is the one that works. If they’ re really 
simultaneous, roll two dice. The high roll wins... and 
Plots and special abilities that affect die rolls may be 
used! 
Note that saying you might play a card, or making a 
threat, is not the same as playing the card. For instance, 
if A plays an Instant Attack, it’s too late for B to respond 
by boosting the Power of the target. But if A threatens to 
play an Instant Attack, B may pre -emptively play a card 
that boosts the Power of the target. When in doubt, B 
should ask “Are you doing it, or just threatening?” A can 
then put up or shut up. 
EVIL SCHEMES 
New World Order Cards 
New World Order cards are a special kind of Plot card. 
They can be played at any time except during an Instant 
or Privileged Attack. When a NWO card is played, it 
goes to the center of the table and affects all players. 
A NWO card represents a basic shift in the world 
power balance. For instance, in 1985, Communism was a 
fundamental force. A decade later, it was on the fringes 
—  a new world order arose! 
If there is any potential ambig uity in the effect of a 
combination of NWO cards, assess the NWO cards one 
at a time in the order they were played. 
Once a NWO is played, it stays in force until removed 
in one of two ways: 
• Using a Plot or special ability that negates it, or 
• Playing another NWO card of the same color. There 
are three colors: red, blue and yellow. Only one NWO 
card of each color can be in play. If a NWO card is in 
play, and another one of the same color is played, the 
earlier one is discarded. Thus, there can never be mo re 
than three NWO cards in effect at once! 
A card can be played to replace an identical NWO. 
The new card would then be the last NWO played, which 
might make a difference in assessing the effect of NWO 
combinations... 
Duplicate Cards 
Because this is a trad ing card game, duplicates of any 
cards —  even multiple duplicates —  can appear. The 
effect of a duplicate depends on the type of card: 
Duplicate Plot Cards 
Duplicate Plot cards may be played freely, except that 
no player may use duplicate Plot cards in the same action 
or attack. 
If your Plot card is canceled (see Cancellations, Illegal 
Actions, and Other Surprises , p.  15), you may play 
another copy —  the first one never happened. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

14 
Duplicate Illuminati Cards 
More than one player may choose to be the same 
Illuminati —  factions of the same conspiracy. They are 
mortal foes! 
You have a +5 bonus on any attack against a Group 
owned by another faction of same Illuminati you are. If 
you destroy another faction of the same Illuminati (by 
stealing or destroying their last Group) you get all their 
Resources. 
Two factions of the same Illuminati cannot share a 
victory. (Exception: If Shangri-La’s Special Goal of 30 
Peaceful Power in play is met, all Shangri-La players 
share the victory). 
You may also put Illuminati cards in your Plots deck. 
If you draw a Plot that duplicates a rival Illuminati, you 
can play it at any time, at the cost of discarding your top 
undrawn Plot and Group cards. 
The duplicate Illuminati card goes with your 
Resources, but it is not a Resource. It is an agent within 
the enemy Illuminati Group. It gives you a +3 attack or 
defense bonus against that Illuminati’s entire Power 
Structure... and if more than one rival is playing a faction 
of that Illuminati, then you get this bon us against all of 
them! 
You may only have one agent for each type of 
Illuminati. You can’t have an agent for the Illuminati 
you’re playing, even if a rival is playing another faction 
of your Illuminati. 
Duplicate Group Cards 
If you have a card that duplica tes a Group controlled 
by a rival, you can use it as an “agents” card to aid or 
oppose an attack against that Group (see Hidden Agents, 
p. 10). You cannot play your own copy, because the 
Group it represents is already in play! 
If you have a card that duplicates a Group that was 
previously in play, but is now destroyed, you may not 
play it unless a Plot or special ability returns that Group 
to play. 
Exception: If some card specifically allows multiple 
copies of a particular Grou p to be in play, you may play 
that Group normally even if it is already in play or has 
been destroyed. If multiple copies of a Group are in play, 
each is treated independently —  changes to one copy do 
not affect others. 
If you have a duplicate of a Group c ard that was 
discarded but was never actually in play, you may play it 
normally. Note that this includes Group cards that were 
discarded after the owner played them from his hand and 
failed to control them —  an extra copy of a key Group in 
your deck can be good insurance against a bad roll. 
Duplicate Resource Cards 
If a Resource is Unique, only one can be in play. 
Whoever plays it first, has it. If that Resource is 
destroyed, no one else may play another copy unless a 
Plot or special ability returns it to play. 
If you have a hidden (inside Warehouse 23 ) Unique 
Resource in play, you must show it as soon as someone 
tries to play a duplicate. If you fail to do this, your rival 
has the Resource and you don’t (discard your copy if it is 
ever exposed). 
If a Reso urce is not Unique, any number may be in 
play. Each is treated independently —  changes to one 
copy do not affect others. 
Links 
A link is a connection between two cards. You may 
link two cards in play that you control during the Main 
Phase of your turn. To mark the link, put identical tokens 
(ones that look different from your Action tokens) on 
both. Examples of linked cards include: 
• A Personality linked to a Place, to show he’s staying 
there (if either the Personality or the Place card 
specifies some benefit from the link). 
• A Resource linked to some Group other than your 
Illuminati. This means the Resource belongs to that 
Group. (By default, any Resource not linked to some 
other Group is linked to the owner’s Illuminati.) 
• A Plot that changes the abilit ies of one specific 
Group, linked to that Group to show that the change is 
in effect. 
Moving Links 
When a Plot is linked to a Group, the link is 
permanent. Some Resources specify that they are 
permanently linked to a Group. In either case, the link 
cannot be changed unless a Plot or special ability 
specifically says so! 
Other links are temporary, and may be changed. You 
may move temporary links during the Main Phase of 
your turn. 
Each temporary link may be moved once per turn. If a 
linked card provides a be nefit (extra Action token, extra 
card draw, etc.), it may not be re -linked or given away 
after it gives its benefit that turn. 
If you give a Resource to another player, it is linked to 
his Illuminati; he may link it to another Group during the 
Main Phase of his turn. 
Illegal Links 
A link is illegal if it violates one of the rules in this 
book or if it contradicts the text on one of the linked 
cards. 
If a link to a Plot or Resource becomes temporarily 
illegal, the Plot or Resource is not lost, but it has no 
effect until its link becomes legal again. 
If a link to a Plot becomes permanently illegal, the Plot 
is discarded. Example: If you capture a Group linked to a 
Monopoly and you already control another Group linked 
to a Monopoly, you must immediately discard one of the 
two Monopoly cards (the card says that you may have 
only one copy in play). 
If a link to a Resource becomes permanently illegal, 
the Resource remains in play. If the link was permanent, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

15 
the link becomes inactive but remains in place and will 
become active again if it somehow becomes legal again. 
If the link was not permanent, the owner may re -link the 
Resource during the Main Phase of his turn. 
Examples: 
• A Peaceful Group has been linked to the Nobel 
Peace Prize , raising its Power to 6. The Gay Activists 
reverse its alignment, making it Violent ( and no longer  
Peaceful) until the end of the turn. This is a temporary 
alignment change; the Nobel Peace Prize  remains 
linked, but has no effect until the Group is Peaceful 
again. 
• A Straight Group is link ed to Grassroots Support , 
increasing its Power to 6. A rival uses Jake Day to make 
it permanently Weird (and no longer Straight). The link 
to is now permanently illegal, so Grassroots Support is 
discarded. 
• A Group is linked to Straighten Up , making it 
Straight. A rival uses Jake Day to make it Weird (and 
no longer Straight). These are mutually exclusive, so 
according to the Meta-Rules (p. 17) the later one ( Jake 
Day) takes precedence. However, the link to Straighten 
Up does n ot actually violate any rule or card text —  
Straighten Up remains linked, and will reassert itself if 
Jake Day is somehow removed. 
The Cards Remember... 
If a Group is moved to another player’s Power 
Structure, its linked cards go with it. If a Group is 
discarded, or returned to the owner’s hand, the link 
becomes temporarily illegal —  it will be activated again 
if the Group returns to play. 
In general, cards “remember” any changes in their 
status, until something explicitly changes them back. A 
Devastated Group does not get Relief just by going back 
into its owner’s hand. If the Vampires successfully attack 
to control a Personality, it remains a vampire forever. 
Exception: If a Group is destroyed, the slate is wiped 
clean. It will have only its printed values  if it somehow 
returns to play. 
These things will rarely happen often enough to cause 
arguments, but keep notes if necessary! 
Cancellations, Illegal Actions, & Other 
Surprises 
Some cards can cancel a Plot, special ability, or action 
while it is underway. The window of opportunity is after 
the attempt is announced, but before the dice are rolled 
or the effect is resolved. If a Plot, special ability, or 
action is canceled, it has no effect (except to discard the 
cards and actions spent on it), and is treated as if it never 
happened. (This means that if a “once per turn” or “once 
per game” card is canceled, you can try again if you can 
pay the cost again!) 
Many Plots and special abilities can work only with a 
Group of a certain alignment, attribute, power level , etc. 
Other cards can change a Group’s alignment, etc. This 
can lead to interesting situations... for instance, when one 
player announces an action, and a rival changes an 
alignment to make that action illegal or take away a 
bonus. 
If an action is used to “power” a Plot or special ability, 
and the action is canceled or made illegal, the Plot or 
special ability fails —  all action(s) or other costs spent to 
power it are lost. 
Exception: If several actions are used together to 
power a Plot or special ability and one of them is 
canceled or made illegal, another action may be 
immediately substituted to replace the lost action. 
If a Plot or special ability is canceled or made illegal, 
any action(s) or other costs spent to power it are lost. 
If a Plot becomes ille gal before its effect is resolved, 
the Plot card returns to the owner’s hand and is exposed. 
If an attacking Group’s action is canceled or made 
illegal, the attack does not happen. Plots used to help the 
attacking Group are discarded, and the attacking Group’s 
Action token is spent. Any Groups that aided or opposed 
the attack get their Action tokens back. Plots used to help 
the aiding or opposing Groups return to their owners’ 
hands and are exposed. “Agents” cards that duplicate the 
target Group return to their owner’s hand. 
If the action of a Group aiding or opposing an attack is 
canceled, the attack goes on, even if it is now doomed to 
failure. Plots used to help the Group whose action was 
canceled are discarded. 
Examples: 
• A Straight Group attacks to con trol another Straight 
Group (+4 bonus). Before the dice are rolled, the 
Orbital Mind Control Lasers  reverse the alignment of 
the target, making it Weird ( –4 penalty). The attack 
continues, even if it has no hope of success. Heh, heh, 
heh. 
• A Violent Group  makes an attack, using the 
Terrorist Nuke  Plot (+10 bonus for a Violent Group). 
Before the dice are rolled, a rival plays Kinder and 
Gentler to make the attacker Peaceful. It is now 
ineligible to use the Terrorist Nuke. The Terrorist Nuke 
returns to its owner’s hand and is exposed. 
• A Violent Group attacks to destroy Vatican City , 
using a Terrorist Nuke. A Liberal Group aids the attack, 
using a Benefit Concert  (+10 bonus for a Liberal 
Group). The Orbital Mind Control Lasers  strike again, 
making the attack er Peaceful. The attack is now illegal 
—  Vatican City  makes its owner’s entire Power 
Structure immune to Peaceful Groups. The attacker’s 
Action token is spent, and the Terrorist Nuke it used is 
discarded. The aiding Group gets its Action token back, 
and the Benefit Concert it used is exposed but not lost. 
THE ENDGAME 
Eliminating a Player 
A player is eliminated if, at any time after his third 
complete turn, his Illuminati has no puppets. His hand, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

16 
his decks, and any Resources he controlled all vanish 
from play. If a player leaves the game, the effect is as 
though he had been eliminated. 
Exceptions: If the Servants of Cthulhu have destroyed 
7 Groups, and then destroy their own last puppet as their 
8th victim, they are not eliminated... instead, they win at 
the end of the turn! 
If you eliminate a player who was using the same 
Illuminati that you are, you get his Resources. 
Winning the Game 
If you eliminate all your rivals, you win! 
Otherwise, the game ends when, at the end of a turn 
(his own or someone else’s), a player meets one of his 
Goals. The other players get a chance to use Plots and 
special abilities to take him down; if they all admit that 
they can’t stop him, he wins. 
No one can win during the first round. The first time 
anyone can claim a victory is at  the end of the first 
player’s second turn. 
If two or more players both meet their Goals at the 
same time, they share the victory, dividing the world 
between them. 
Exception: Players who are playing the same 
Illuminati (except Shangri-La using its Special Goal) 
cannot share a victory. If they meet their Goals at the 
same time, neither wins. The game continues unless 
some other player also met his Goals at the same time (in 
which case that player wins). 
You can meet your Goals three ways: 
• Basic Goal: This is the same for all players. Control 
a certain number of Groups, including your Illuminati. 
The standard Basic Goal is 12 Groups for a game with 
two or three players, 11 Groups for a game with four 
players, or 10 Groups for a game with five or more 
players. This number may be increased or decreased by 
mutual agreement before beginning the game; the 
higher the Basic Goal, the longer the game is likely to 
take. 
• Special Goal:  This is different for each kind of 
Illuminati. Some Special Goals modify the Basic Goal. 
Other Special Goals are self-contained. 
• Goal Cards:  These are a type of Plot card —  any 
time a foe has even one hidden Plot, it might be a secret 
Goal! As with Special Goals, some Goal cards modify 
the Basic Goal, and others are self-contained. 
If a Goal card in your hand lets you declare victory at 
the end of a turn, show the card. Your rivals cannot steal, 
cancel, or otherwise affect the Goal card during the 
victory attempt —  it is not “played,” just shown to prove 
that you had it in your hand. If your victory attempt fails, 
the Goal card is returned to your hand, exposed. 
Until you declare victory, a Goal card in your hand is 
just like any other Plot card —  rivals may be able to look 
at it, steal it, expose it, or discard it. If it’s exposed, you 
can still win with it... but your rivals know about it, and 
can target it with anything that affects exposed Plots. 
No player may have more than one Goal card in his 
hand, unless some Plot or special ability specifically 
allows it. If you draw an excess Go al card, you must 
immediately discard one or return one to your deck. 
When you win, you must show all your Plots, to prove 
that you had no excess Goal cards! If a player’s Plots are 
exposed at any time and he has too many Goal cards, 
he’s out of the game. 
Counting Groups Double 
Some Special Goals and Goal cards allow certain 
Groups to count double toward the Basic Goal. No 
Group can ever count more than double (even if it fits 
two different Goals), and no player may count more than 
three Groups double. 
Changing Groups to Meet Goals 
If you change a Group’s abilities, the changes may 
count for Goals. It depends on whether the change is 
permanent (no built-in time limit) or temporary (lasts for 
a predetermined time and then expires, such as a change 
“until the end of the turn”). 
Permanent changes always count for Goals. For 
instance, if you play a card that turns a Group 
permanently Peaceful, it now counts as Peaceful for all 
Goals! 
Temporary Power changes and Power bonuses limited 
to specific purposes (e.g. onl y to make attacks) do not  
count for Goals. 
Temporary Alignment changes (such as the Orbital 
Mind Control Lasers  effect) do count for Goals. And if 
the change in Alignment causes a change in Power 
(because of a New World Order, for instance), that 
change in  Power also counts for Goals. But these 
changes only count while they’re in effect! They are 
good only for a victory declared at the end of that turn. 
For instance, if the Orbital Mind Control Lasers  make a 
Group Liberal, it only counts as Liberal for that  turn... 
even if it is destroyed while Liberal, it is does not count 
that way after the turn is over (it won’t be remembered 
as Liberal when the winners write the history books). 
STRATEGY 
Conspiring for a shared victory may seem easier than 
grabbing the whole pie. But be careful who you trust. 
When someone leaves the room, conspire against him. 
There is always a way to make your position a little bit 
better and his a little bit worse. 
Negotiate with everyone. Your foes are less likely to 
attack you if they think you might help them win. 
To avoid being attacked, you should look strong 
enough to defend yourself, but not so strong that you are 
a threat. 
Watch your rivals constantly; keep track of how close 
they are to their Goals. The more Plots they have, the 
more likely they are to play some fiendish trick and win 
in one turn. Don’t count on others to warn you of 
danger... they may have made a private deal! 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

17 
The Perfect Deck 
Half the victory comes before the game starts —  when 
you choose the cards for your deck , and decide how 
you’ll use them. World domination should never be left 
to chance. 
Pick cards that work well together... to defend each 
other, aid each other’s strengths, work toward your own 
goal and smash your foes. 
A very aggressive deck works well in a  two -player 
game. Multi-player games call for more defensive cards, 
and a careful buildup of power —  if you grow too fast 
and overextend yourself, your rivals may form an 
alliance to bring you down. Either way, you want a few 
key high -Power Groups, some Gr oups and Resources 
with useful special abilities, and some Plot cards that 
work with them. Bring a variety of cards, so you can 
choose the ones you need to frustrate your rivals’ plans. 
The best decks have a theme. A deck can be built 
around an Illuminati card, or an alignment (or two), or an 
attribute (or two), or a Goal card, or even a particular 
strategy. 
But there is no such thing as the perfect deck. Any 
deck can be beaten... by a good player who knows 
what’s in it. So vary your deck and your strategie s! If 
you lead with the Mafia every time, your rivals will 
bring Mafia cards of their own, and take it away from 
you. Switch cards between games, or use the same cards 
in a different way. Don’t be predictable! 
And don’t depend on the cards to win for you. A good 
player with a weak deck can beat a careless player with a 
strong deck. 
Balanced Power Structures 
If a Group controls many puppets, you must protect it 
—  losing such a key Group really hurts. If all of your 
Groups branch from one Illuminati control a rrow, you 
can be wiped out in one attack! 
If one of your rivals makes this mistake, you can win 
by taking several Groups in one attack! 
Threats and Negotiation 
Any agreement between players, secret or otherwise, is 
permitted, if it does not actually violat e the rules. In 
particular, you can always try to change an opponent’s 
mind, by promises, bribes or threats, about an action that 
he plans or announces. 
Deals can be made either openly or secretly. The 
possibilities are limited only by your own duplicity. 
TWO-PLAYER RULES 
Two-player games —  especially in tournament play —  
can lend themselves to quick -kill strategies or 
“degenerate” decks that would be easy to counter in a 
multi-player game. 
The following rules are official for two -player 
tournament games, a nd suggested for all two -player 
games: 
• Never set the Basic Goal to less than 12 Groups. 
• Neither player may attack the other until each has 
taken a full turn; Player  2 can’t jump instantly on 
Player 1. 
• A player who takes an automatic takeover during 
Phase 3 of his turn loses one of the Illuminati action 
tokens he would normally get during Phase 4 of that 
turn. 
META-RULES 
These Meta -Rules take precedence even over what’s 
printed on the cards. 
• Keep track of which cards are your property. When 
someone takes a card you own, make a note, so you can 
get it back at the end of the game! Or put one of your 
own tokens on the card. Or use a sticky-note. 
• Whenever someone steals a card from your hand, 
deck, etc., you may look to see which card they are 
taking. 
• When you use a duplicate card to capture a Group 
from someone else, put your own copy in your Power 
Structure and let them keep theirs. 
• If two Plots conflict, the last one played is the one 
that rules. If card B is played to nullify card A, and then 
card C is immediately played to nullify card B, then 
card A is once again effective. 
• When several cards modify Power or Resistance, 
changes to a specific value come first, then effects that 
multiply or divide, and then effects that add or subtract. 
For instance, if Grassroots Support (increases Power to 
6) and The Big Prawn  (doubles Power) are linked to 
England, and the NWO card Law and Order  (gives all 
Straight Groups +2 Power) is in play, first change 
England’s Power to 6, then double it to 12, and then add 
the +2. Its final Power is 14. 
• You may never combine two multiplying cards —  
apply only the single highest multiplier. For instance, if 
New York  (Power 7) is linked to Cyborg Soldiers  
(doubles Power), and Good Polls  (triples Power and 
Resistance for de fense) is used to defend it against an 
Attack to Destroy, New York  resists the attack with a 
Power of 21 (Power 7, tripled by Good Polls , ignore 
Cyborg Soldiers). 
Note that an action spent in self -defense gets an extra 
multiple. For instance, if New York  i n this example 
spends an Action token to defend itself, the action's 
Power would be 28 (Power 7, quadrupled instead of 
tripled), and its total defense would be 21 + 28, or 49. 
• If a card specifically says something cannot happen 
to it, this takes precedence over a card that normally has 
that effect. Exception: if Card A mentions Card B by 
name, then A’s ability takes precedence over any 
defense or immunity B may have. 
• Impossible die rolls cannot happen. For instance, the 
Suicide Squad calls for the player to roll one die, which 
gives a result from 1 to 6. Anything that would increase 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

18 
the result to more than 6 increases it to 6; anything that 
would decrease the result to less than 1 decreases it to 1. 
• Illuminati Groups never have alignments or 
attributes. They can never be destroyed, except by 
losing all their puppets. 
• Groups in your Power Structure may never overlap. 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
“Any attempt” abilities give your whole Power 
Structure a bonus on some type of attack. Any such 
attack by any of your Groups receives the bonus. Your 
“any attempt” bonus doesn’t help an attack made by 
another player, even if you aid the attack. 
Example: The Cycle Gangs give +2 on any Attack to 
Destroy. If you control the Cycle Gangs, any attempt by 
one of your Groups to d estroy another Group will get a 
+2 bonus, whether the Cycle Gangs  participate in the 
attack or not. You gain this ability the moment that you 
take over the Cycle Gangs , and lose it as soon as you 
lose them. 
Note: Attack bonuses don’t affect Instant Attacks  
unless they specifically say they do. 
Any Time: You may do this during any phase of any 
player’s turn. However, you still may not interfere with a 
Privileged Attack, use Action tokens (other than the uses 
specifically allowed) during the “Beginning of Tur n” 
segment of your turn, or use a card simply to keep 
someone else from looking at it or stealing it. 
Assassinated or Killed: A Personality destroyed by an 
Assassination is killed. Some Plots and special abilities 
can restore a killed Personality to play o r make a 
Personality immune to being killed. Cards that refer to 
“killed” or “Assassinated”” Personalities do not work 
against other forms of destruction unless they 
specifically say they do. 
Automatic Failure:  This lets you wreck another 
player’s attack after he commits actions and Plot cards 
and rolls the dice. The attack fails, and all the actions and 
cards are gone. Life is cruel. 
Cancel: Some cards can cancel a Plot, special ability, 
or action while it is underway (after it is announced, but 
before the  dice are rolled or the effect is resolved). A 
canceled action is treated as if it never happened. 
“Cancel” does not mean “remove an Action token 
before it is used.” That is an entirely different ability. 
See Cancellations, Illegal Actions, and Other 
Surprises (p. 15) for more detail. 
Decks: All your undrawn Plot and Group cards. You 
may not look at them! 
Defense is opposing an attack on one of your Groups. 
A bonus that only counts for “defense” can only be used 
to oppose an at tack on your Power Structure, not to 
interfere in favor of somebody else’s defense. 
Note: A Group’s action spent to defend itself gets a 
Power bonus. This does not apply when a Group spends 
an action to defend another Group, even in the same 
Power Structure. 
Direct attacks are those made by the Group itself.  
Example: The Hackers have a +4 for direct control of 
any Computer Group. This means you get a +4 bonus 
when the Hackers make an attack to control a Computer 
Group. If some other Group attacks a Computer Group, 
this +4 bonus does not apply even if the Hackers aid the 
attack. 
If a Group has two bonuses listed for the same 
circumstances, one “any attempt” bonus and one “direct 
attack” bonus, they are not cumulative. 
Example: Finland has +6 for direct contr ol of a 
Computer Group and gives +2 to any attempt to control a 
Computer Group. When Finland attacks to control a 
Computer Group, its bonus is +6, not +8. 
Note: Attack bonuses don’t affect Instant Attacks 
unless they specifically say they do. 
Discard: Disc arded cards are placed in the owner’s 
discard pile, face -up (unless a card specifically says to 
discard face-down or without looking). 
Cards may be discarded from a player’s hand to pay 
the cost of a Plot or special ability. When a cost requires 
a discard, discard from your hand unless the card says to 
discard from your deck. 
Draw and Choose:  “Draw” means take the top card 
from the deck. “Choose” means look through the deck 
and take any card you want! 
Free Action or Free Move:  A “free action” or “free 
move” Plot or special ability may be used at no cost —  
you don’t have to spend an action, discard cards, etc. 
Hand: The Plot, Group, and Resource cards that you 
have drawn. You can look at them at any time. They are 
not considered “in play.” 
Immunity: If Group A is immune to Group B, then 
Group B cannot attack Group A, aid attacks on Group A, 
or affect Group A with its special abilities. If your entire 
Power Structure is immune to a certain Group, then all 
your Groups are immune, and that Group cannot use any 
special ability to affect your Resources, hand, decks, or 
discards. 
In Play and Just Played: Groups and Resources are “in 
play” while a player controls them. A Plot is “in play” 
while it remains on the table to mark its effect. 
A Group that was “just played” from someone’s hand 
is not in play until he makes a successful attack to 
control it. As soon as he controls it, it is in play; if he 
discards it without ever controlling it, it was never in 
play. 
Interference is participation in an attack by players 
other than the attacker and defender. If a player is unable 
to interfere in an attack (usually because it has been 
made Privileged), he cannot use any Plot, action, or 
special ability to affect that attack (though he may be 
able to affect the die roll after the attack is over). 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

19 
Master and Puppet:  If Group A controls Group B 
directly, then A is the master and B is the puppet. 
Paralyzed: A paralyzed Group cannot spend Action 
tokens and cannot use any special ability or linked 
Resource (even ones that would normally be usable at no 
cost). Control of a paralyzed Group does not count for 
any Goal. Puppets of a paralyzed Group are not affected; 
however, the paralyzed Group cannot get any new 
puppets. 
Permanent Change: Any change to a Group’s Power, 
Global Power, Resist ance, attributes or alignments that 
does not have a specific built -in time limit. Changes 
made by New World Order cards, for instance, are 
permanent. Note that “permanent” changes can be 
reversed by another Plot or special ability! 
Power Structure: Your Il luminati, plus all the Groups 
that it controls, both directly and through its puppets. 
Printed Power:  The Power of a Group prior to any 
modifications (other than those that specifically refer to 
Printed Power). If there is an * printed in the Power 
section of the card, then the relevant instructions apply to 
printed Power. 
Shuffle: After you look through a deck to choose a 
card, you must shuffle it, and any other player may cut. 
Special Ability:  A useful capability of a Group or 
Resource described in its ca rd text. Special abilities may 
or may not require a cost to use, and may be canceled. 
Note: Sometimes, a Group or Resource will have 
instruction text that limits its usefulness. These 
instructions cannot be nullified or canceled! 
Anything that is generally  beneficial to the owner of 
the card is a special ability. Anything that is generally 
harmful to the owner is an instruction. If canceling 
something (like the roll for OPEC’s Power) would leave 
a gaping ambiguity, then it’s an instruction. 
Temporary Change: Any change to a Group’s Power, 
Global Power, Resistance, attributes or alignments that 
has a specific built -in time limit, such as “for the next 
action,” or “until the end of the turn.” 
Turn: When a card says it does something “each turn,” 
that means each time its owner takes a turn! Bonuses are 
granted at the appropriate turn phase; for example, extra 
Action tokens come when you get your usual Action 
tokens. 
GAME SUPPORT 
We will answer questions about this game if they’re 
sent, along with a stamped, self -addressed envelope, to: 
INWO Questions, Steve Jackson Games, PO Box 18957, 
Austin, TX 78760. We cannot answer questions by 
phone. 
For a current errata sheet and card list, giving rarities, 
send a SASE to the address above. 
On the Net 
Steve Jackson Games’ online magazine Pyramid 
(www.sjgames.com/pyramid/) features a range of articles 
about games (not just the ones Steve Jackson Games 
publishes), including INWO. 
The Steve Jackson Games Web page 
(www.sjgames.com) has an INWO section 
(www.sjgames.com/inwo), which includes a Frequently 
Asked Questions (FAQ) file and Errata to clarify some 
of the mysteries of the Secret Masters. 
You can subscribe to the INWO e-mail list, by sending 
e-mail to inwo -list-request@lists.io.com (to get each 
message as it goes out) or i nwo-digest-
request@lists.io.com (to get batches of messages every 
day or so). Reading and posting questions to the e -mail 
list is a good way to get answers not (yet) found in the 
FAQ. 
The German INWO Cabal has set up their own 
steadily growing newsletter t o get connected. Send e -
mail to illuminati -online@birgermeister.de to be 
informed about German INWO activities on a regular 
basis. 
Marc Sherman runs an INWO ratings page and 
tournament calendar at www.projectile.ca/inwo/ratings/ 
RULES UPDATE 
Changes Since WDHv1.1 
The Turn Sequence now puts victory declaration after 
knocking (because that’s how everybody knows that thr 
turn is ending). (p. 3) 
Actions spent in self -defense now work a bit 
differently. (p. 8) 
Immunity has been expanded from a Glossary entry to 
a section of the rulebook. (p. 11) 
The standard Basic Goal  has been set at 12 for 2 -3 
players, 11 for 4 players, and 10 for 5+ players. (p. 16) 
Two-Player Rules have been changed; now, players in 
a two-player game may make automatic takeovers at the 
cost of foregoing one of the Illuminati Action tokens 
they would normally get on that turn. This avoids the 
need to re -tune decks with several  Secret or high -
Resistance Groups for games with no automatic takeover 
phase. (p. 17) 
Changes Since WDHv1.0 
Automatic takeover  is now explicitly optional. An 
Illuminati action can be used for a Resource takeover. 
(p. 2) 
Beginning the game is clarified as regards attacking 
players who haven’t had their first turn. Also, the “lead 
puppet” rule is expanded. (p. 2) 
Cancellation of actions is clarified. (p. 15) 
Die rolls changed by cards are modified to the closest 
legal number. (p. 17) 
Discards are always face up. (p. 4) 
Dropping Groups  from your Power Structure is no 
longer allowed. (p. 4) 
Elimination of players  happens only after the third 
turn. (p. 15) 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

20 
Goals and Winning rules  have been added. No player 
can win during the first round. No more than three 
Groups can count double for victory. Goal cards can’t be 
canceled during a victory attempt; if you are caught with 
excess Goal cards, you lose. (p. 16) 
Immunity is defined at greater length. (p. 11) 
Links have been clarified. (p. 14) 
Memory of Cards is a new rules section. (p. 15) 
New World Order cards  take effect in the order 
played. (p. 13) 
Permanent and Temporary changes  are defined in the 
Glossary. (p. 18) 
Relief requires three times a Place’s printed Power. 
(p. 12) 
Secret Group rules  have been reworded for clarity. 
(p. 11) 
Timing has been described in greater detail. (p. 13) 
Two-player rules have been added. (p. 17) 
Cards Update 
Unlimited Edition 
The following changes have been made to Limited 
Edition cards in the Unlimited Edition . All Limited 
Edition cards should be treated as if they had the 
Unlimited Edition text. 
China explicitly gets its +20 defense against Disasters. 
Clipper Chip is limited to one per player. 
Combined Disasters requires that both Disasters must 
be eligible to strike the target Place. 
Eliza is limited to one per Group. 
The Gnomes of Zurich  have a +4 bonus to control 
Bank Groups only (not Bank and Corporate Groups). 
Orbit One can be affected by a Nuclear Disaster, but 
not an Earthquake. 
The Oregon Crud has a Power of 24, and destroys on a 
roll that succeeds by 10 or more. 
Political Correctness  affects Conservative Groups 
with a Power of 0 or 1. 
Reload (and similar cards that give extra tokens to 
Groups of a specific alignment or attribute) now require 
an Illuminati action and reload only 5 Power’s worth of 
tokens, or any one Group of any Power. (Exception: Full 
Moon requires an Illuminati action, but still reloads all 
your Fanatic Groups.) The rules now make it explicit 
that you cannot “reload” a group on the turn  it is 
captured. 
Seize the Time  requires an Illuminati action, and 
cannot be used on your first turn. It does not give the 
Illuminati any new Action tokens, and you cannot draw 
cards or play any Plots during your extra turn. 
Shangri-La explicitly gets its +5 to defend against 
Instant Attacks. 
Upheaval! requires an Illuminati action, and cannot be 
used on your first turn. 
Video Games gives +1 Power to all your other (i.e. not 
itself) Computer Groups. 
Volcano has a Power of 18, and destroys on a roll that 
succeeds by 2 or more. 
Voodoo Economics  requires an Illuminati action, and 
can be used only once per game by each player. 
Weather Satellite  now gives a +10 (not a +8), to 
Tornado, Hurricane, and Rain of Frogs  (not Tidal 
Wave). 
Other Card Errata 
Some other cla rifications and changes to cards have 
been made since the release of the Unlimited Edition and 
the Assassins expansion: 
+10 Plot Cards  (such as Albino Alligators ) never 
count more than once for any given action or defense 
(even if a Group uses several Action tokens). 
Alien Abduction requires an action from the UFOs or a 
Space Group to use the “automatic takeover of a 
Personality” option. 
Alternate Goals  may be either held in your hand or 
played in front of you. If you play it, it does not count 
against your hand limit. 
A.M.A. may aid or oppose any attack made by, or 
against, any Science Group (and gives its +5 bonus when 
doing so). 
Antitrust Legislation has been extensively reworked. It 
now reads: 
When this card is played, each player may move his 
Groups before it goes into effect, at the cost of discarding 
one Plot card for each move or three Plot cards for a 
complete reorganization. These discards may come from 
hand or deck. 
While this NWO is in effect, Corporate Groups that 
control or are controlled by oth er Corporate Groups lose 
their Action tokens and cannot get new ones or use their 
special abilities. 
This card replaces any Yellow NWO card in play.  
Blinded by Science requires at least six Science Groups 
having a total Power of 30 or more. 
Comet Hail-“Bob” can be used only once per game by 
each player. 
Flesh-Eating Bacteria  requires a Science action to 
return to your hand after destroying the target. 
Go Fish  cannot be used on a player who has been 
forced to reveal a hidden Plot or has received a Plot card 
from a rival. This restriction expires at the end of that 
player’s next turn. 
Oil Spill  allows you to put an Action token on all 
Green Groups in play after a successful attack (even one 
that only Devastates its target), but each player can only 
do this once per game. 
Upheaval! causes Groups to be discarded —  they do 
not count as destroyed for any purpose.  
 